Setup mTLS gateway and access exposed workload with certificate tutorials (#15716)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-10-expose-and-secure-workload-with-certificate.md

Optionally you can take a look on tutorial [How to create own self-signed Client Root CA and Certificate](../00-security/sec-02-mtls-selfsign-client-certicate.md)

## Authorize client with a certificate

Follow the instructions in the tabs to further secure the mTLS service or Function. Create AuthorizationPolicy that checks if the client's Common Name in the certificate matches.

1. Export the following values as environment variables:

   ```bash
   export CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE={CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE}
   export CLIENT_CERT_CN={COMMON_NAME}
   export CLIENT_CERT_ORG={ORGANIZATION}
   export CLIENT_CERT_CRT_FILE={CLIENT_CERT_CRT_FILE}
   export CLIENT_CERT_KEY_FILE={CLIENT_CERT_KEY_FILE}
   ```

<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  HttpBin
  </summary>

1. Create VirtualService that adds the X-CLIENT-SSL headers to the incoming requests:
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f - 
   apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: httpbin-vs
     namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     hosts:
     - "httpbin-vs.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"
     gateways:

>      - ${GATEWAY}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ${MTLS_GATEWAY_NAME}
```

           host: httpbin
         headers:
           request:
             set:
               X-CLIENT-SSL-CN: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_SUBJECT%"
               X-CLIENT-SSL-SAN: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_URI_SAN%"
               X-CLIENT-SSL-ISSUER: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_ISSUER%"
   EOF
   ```

2. Create AuthorizationPolicy that verifies if the request contains a new client certificate:
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
   kind: AuthorizationPolicy
   metadata:
     name: test-authz-policy
     namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     action: ALLOW
     rules:
     - to:
       - operation:
           hosts: ["httpbin-vs.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"]
       when:
       - key: request.headers[X-Client-Ssl-Cn]
         values: ["O=${CLIENT_CERT_ORG},CN=${CLIENT_CERT_CN}"]
   EOF
   ```
  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Function
  </summary>

1. Create VirtualService that adds the X-CLIENT-SSL headers to incoming requests:
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f - 
   apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: function-vs
     namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     hosts:

>      - "function-example.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - "function-vs.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"
```

     gateways:
     - ${GATEWAY}
     http:
     - route:
       - destination:
           port:
             number: 80
           host: function
         headers:
           request:
             set:
               X-CLIENT-SSL-CN: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_SUBJECT%"
               X-CLIENT-SSL-SAN: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_URI_SAN%"
               X-CLIENT-SSL-ISSUER: "%DOWNSTREAM_PEER_ISSUER%"
   EOF
   ```
2. Create AuthorizationPolicy that verifies if the request contains a new client certificate:
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
   kind: AuthorizationPolicy
   metadata:
     name: test-authz-policy
     namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     action: ALLOW
     rules:
     - to:
       - operation:

>            hosts: ["function-example.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           hosts: ["function-vs.${DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}"]
```

       when:
       - key: request.headers[X-Client-Ssl-Cn]
         values: ["O=${CLIENT_CERT_ORG},CN=${CLIENT_CERT_CN}"]
   EOF
   ```
  </details>
</div>

<div tabs>

  <details>
  <summary>
  Call the secured endpoints of a service
  </summary>

Send a `GET` request to the HttpBin service with the client certificates that you used to create mTLS Gateway:

   ```shell
   curl --key ${CLIENT_CERT_KEY_FILE} \
        --cert ${CLIENT_CERT_CRT_FILE} \

>         --cacert ${CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE} \ -ik -X GET https://httpbin.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        --cacert ${CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE} \
        -ik -X GET https://httpbin-vs.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers
```

   ```

These calls return the code `200` response. If you call the service without the proper certificates or with old ones, you get the code `403` response.

  </details>

  <details>
  <summary>
  Call the secured Function
  </summary>

Send a `GET` request with a token that has the `read` scope to the Function:

   ```shell
   curl --key ${CLIENT_CERT_KEY_FILE} \
        --cert ${CLIENT_CERT_CRT_FILE} \

>         --cacert ${CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE} \ -ik -X GET https://function-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        --cacert ${CLIENT_ROOT_CA_CRT_FILE} \
        -ik -X GET https://function-vs.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function
```

---
title: Expose and secure a workload with a certificate
---

This tutorial shows how to expose and secure a workload with mutual authentication using Kyma's mutual TLS Gateway.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial is based on a sample HttpBin service deployment and a sample Function. To deploy or create one of those, follow the [Create a workload](./apix-01-create-workload.md) tutorial.

Before you start, Set up [mTLS Gateway](../00-security/sec-03-setup-mtls-gateway.md) to allow mutual authentication in Kyma and make sure that you exported the [bundle certificates](../00-security/sec-03-setup-mtls-gateway#steps).

> Optionally you can take a look on tutorial [How to create own self-signed Client Root CA and Certificate](../00-security/sec-02-mtls-selfsign-client-certicate.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optionally, take a look at the [How to create own self-signed Client Root CA and Certificate](../00-security/sec-02-mtls-selfsign-client-certicate.md) tutorial.
```

## Authorize client with a certificate

> Follow the instructions in the tabs to further secure the mTLS service or Function. Create AuthorizationPolicy that checks if the client's Common Name in the certificate matches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following instructions describe how to further secure the mTLS service or Function. 
>**NOTE:** Create AuthorizationPolicy to check if the client's common name in the certificate matches.
```
Can you add some more information? With what`the client's common name in the certificate matches`?
